So far we've been writing and
running functions.
Now we want to start writing and
running whole programs.
And on a Macintosh and on Linux machines,
Python 2 comes installed.
Your machine may attempt to
run our programs in Python 2,
which doesn't work, or
it may run them in Python 3.
We're going to determine that right now.
Go up to spotlight, type in terminal,
press enter, run it.
Type Python, press return.
On my machine it returns
Python 3 point something, so
mine is going to run Python 3
automatically, yours may too.
If it does, skip to the next video, you
don't need to create an environment for
Python 3.
If yours displays Python 2 point
something, then you need to
create an environment, and I'm going to
show you how to do that very quick.
Okay, let me exit from Python.
First, let me show you how to determine
what version of Python you're using.
Okay, if I bring Spyder up,
mine says 3.6.2,
you should do that and
write down the version.
If you installed an environment for
that version,
I think it will go a little bit
faster than if you install it for
a different version,
although it'll work perfectly fine.
Once you've done that, Go back to this.
Now I will show you how to determine if
you have an environments already on your
machine.
You use conda info --envs.
And you can see that I have
four environments out there.
Yours will probably have just one,
and that'll be root.
Now we're going to create
other environments.
And this is the command that you use
to do that, conda create -n for name.
And then I'm going to create
one called python362,
because I'm going to create
an environment for running Python 3.6.2,
which is a version that I
had when I looked at Spyder.
You've written it down, you can- Do
whatever version your machine has.
Now this name is can be anything,
you can name it whatever you want.
And you put for Python version,
whatever version you got, and Spyder.
Once you've entered that, press return and
it'll start fetching what it
needs to from the web to install.
When it gets through, it'll ask you
whether you want to proceed and
you say yes.
And now it's installing that additional
software and creating an environment.
This may take a few minutes.
Yours may display additional
lines as it does,
depending on how much work it has to do.
Now it tells you to
activate that environment.
You type source activate and
then the name for your environment.
So I'm going to activate mine,
source activate- python362.
The name for
yours will likely be different from mine.
Now I can test that in a couple of ways.
One, is I can run Python, and it should
display Python 3 something really,
it's not critical on what it does just as
long as it displays the Python 3 version.
Also, I can say conda info --envs,
and I can see the environments out there.
This asterisk shows
which one is activated.
Since we use source activate
to activate Python362,
it's the one that's activated.
Now, let's repeat the process
that you'll need to use
in order to activate this environment.
First of all, I'm going to close terminal,
and we just going to quit it altogether.
I'm going to we go up here,
I'm going to type in terminal,
Press enter, and I bring it up.
Now, I'm going to type source activate
python362, and now I'm ready to go.
So now go onto the next video and
we'll show you how to run Python programs.
Remember, you need to bring up
a terminal and type source activate and
the name of your Python 3 environment,
and then you're ready to go.